Okay.
So let's talk about the bug that we encountered in the previous lesson.
We saw that when the page loaded, we did not see any jobs on the right hand side.
And the issue is actually coming from our filter jobs by organizations getter.
So here in my store index that's filed, I want to show you our getter implementation and then show
you what's wrong with it.
So let's imagine that we have 100 jobs that we received from our backend, but also that the user has
not selected any organizations to filter by.
So in that scenario, our selected organization's array is going to be empty.
It's going to look exactly like this.
So what's the problem with this?
Well, the problem is when we run the includes method on an array, we are asking JavaScript to check
whether we are finding a certain string within that array.
And that string, of course, is the current jobs organization.
The only problem is if our array is empty, then obviously we're not going to find any string in there.
So if we have an empty array and we call the includes method on it, we're always going to get false,
right?
So for example, if we're running this getter and we have a sample job with, let's say an organization
of let's save YouTube, then this filter function is going to ask, Hey, selected organizations, empty
array, do you have the value of YouTube in it?
And the JavaScript is going to say, No, I don't have YouTube.
The answer is false.
So we're going to get back false, which means we're not going to include that job in these filtered
jobs.
Right.
And no matter what string we have here, whether it be YouTube or you can do it because we have an empty
array, we're always going to get a false.
So in summary, for every single job that we're going to iterate over in this getter, we're always
going to return false.
And since we're always going to return false, what this getter is ultimately going to return when selected
organizations as empty is going to be a final return value of an empty array.
We literally have no jobs that satisfy this criteria because there are no jobs that can.
So we get back and empty right?
Then when we jump to our original component, our original component says, okay, I'm going to take
the first ten jobs of an empty array.
And that's going to be nothing.
Right?
And so it has no jobs to iterate over.
So V four has nothing to iterate over.
So we get nothing on the right hand side.
Why does this problem fix itself whenever we select an organization?
Well, whenever we do that, remember that our view store receives the changes.
So selected organizations then becomes an array that actually has a value in it, like YouTube.
And because that part of the store state has changed.
Our getter now runs and because our gallery runs, it repeats the filter logic again for every job.
And now because it has a selected organization's array with Let's Save YouTube, that's only going to
find the jobs that have YouTube in it.
So in summary, this logic will work as soon as the user has selected one or more organizations.
But it's not going to work whenever the user has not selected any organizations because this array is
going to be empty.
So what behavior do we want when the user does not have any organization selected?
Well, there's no filters being applied.
So I think the most logical thing is exactly what we've had so far.
We simply show the user all of the jobs, all 100 of them.
We load the page.
We show them every possible job our company has to offer.
And then when they select an organization or two of them or remove one or etc., then we update the
jobs issue on the right.
But we should always have something to show them either everything or a filtered subset.
So our solution to this is going to be to add a pretty simple if statement to our getter, and it's
going to say if there are no selected organizations at all.
If the length of that array zero, then simply show all of the jobs.
Simply return the current jobs array from the View Store state as it is.
All right.
So in order to implement that, let's first write a test.
So I'm going to open up my index, that test, that just file in my store.
I'm going to drag it over here to the right hand side.
And I'm also going to open up my terminal so I can run my tests.
All right.
And so let me just start it up with NPM, run, test, call and watch.
And so we want to write an additional test for an existing getter.
So I'm going to scold way all the way down to my getter.
S.E. here is my filter jobs by organizations test that we previously wrote.
And this test, of course, assumes that we have a selected organization's array of values.
Let's add an additional describe inside of our filter jobs by organizations.
Describe to explain a different scenario, a different context.
And that context is there are there are no organizations selected.
So right here, I'm going to describe.
When the user has not selected any organizations.
What do we want to happen?
We want to get back the array of all of the original jobs.
So what I'm going to do is first write my test description.
What is what should the U.S. store do?
What should the getter do?
It should return all jobs.
There are no filters to be applied, so we want to show the user all of the original jobs.
So I'm going to do is copy most of the code that we have above and then I'm going to modify it.
So I'm going to copy and paste this code from above, paste inside my it.
All right.
So what is going to be different about the situation right now?
We still need to provide a state object and we can still have three jobs in it.
However, the difference in this test is, of course, we don't want any values in our selected organizations
array.
So this is how the page is going to start out.
We're going to start out with the user not choosing anything.
So the data is not passed up to the U.S. yet.
So we're going to go to the default view state, which of course is just an empty array of selected
organisations.
So then we're going to call the exact same getter filter jobs by organisations passing in the state.
So what do we expect to get back from our filter jobs?
Our filter jobs is really just going to be our original complete array of jobs.
In this case, we're going to start out with three.
So we want to get back three, right?
We're still going to use the getter in our component and the getter is still going to be responsible
for filtering the batch of jobs whenever we get a select organization.
But it's okay if we also filter and end up with the exact same number of jobs because the getter is
still a derived piece of data and our derived piece of data is however many jobs we want to show, or
the filtered subset of jobs that fit our criteria.
In this case, we have no jobs that fit the criteria, but that's still a filter operation that still
requires our filter method to run.
So right here, I'm going to copy my Amazon job right here because we want to get back.
An array of those jobs.
And keep in mind, we're still technically reducing the state to something simpler.
Right?
Because in this complex you store state, we have a selected organization's property, right?
We have a jobs property.
What we're getting back from our getter is an array of jobs.
So we're still not returning to the original View Store State.
We're returning a smaller subset, a focused property of this array right here, which is the array
of jobs that have now not been filtered because there's no need to filter.
All right.
So I'm going to save this and let's see what we get.
We're going to get a failure.
If I scroll up, we're going to see, hey, we are getting actually an array of nothing, which is what
we're actually getting in the real world implementation.
But our test says that we should be getting an array of all three organizations, right?
That's exactly the failure that we expect.
So now I can move on down to my original getter implementation right here, filter jobs by organization.
And I'm going to add a simple if statement above my return.
I'm going to say.
If state that's selected organizations, that's going to be my property, my array representing the
user selections.
If the length of that array is zero and there could be several circumstances where this is true, this
can be when the page loads, but also, for example, when the user selects, let's say an organization
and then dyslexic.
We're going to go back to an empty selected organization's array.
And each time the user does that, we're going to rerun this getter and this logic is going to capture
any one of those scenarios.
If there are no selected organizations, there is nothing to filter by.
So my filter jobs by organizations array is simply going to be my original array of jobs which I can
get by talking to the jobs property on my drugstore store state, which I get as my first property or
my first argument rather to this getter method.
So I'm going to save this.
We are going to get a failure here.
Because we're going to see this not fill their jobs, their organizations is going to fail a little
bit in job listings.
We're going to come back to this error in just a second.
However, if I focused on just my getter tests, if I scroll up here.
We should see that that failure is actually gone.
If I scroll up long enough, you can see here in tests unit, store index that test that, yes, this
code has made the logic pass and I can show you in my browser, even though we are getting tests failures
in our test suite if I go back to my browser.
Everything is working just fine, so I can start out by going back to my job results page when the page
loads for the first time.
We do have ten jobs on the right hand side and now when I select an organization like YouTube, we're
going to filter out of YouTube.
When I select another one, like if you can do it, we're going to get YouTube and then you can do it.
When I select one like YouTube, we're going to see only the ones that belong to you.
You can do it.
Here we go.
It's all of you can do it.
And then when I dislike it, you can do it.
We go back to having no selected organizations and we go back to the original implementation.
So the really good news is everything in our browser is working.
This was the original feature that we wanted to show to the user.
So we're making really, really, really good progress.
Of course, we still have a couple of test failures that we need to address in our test.
We we're going to take care of that in the very next lesson.